# Simmulated-Annealer
To allow for the precise manipulation of individual memristive components in virtual reservoir computers, a simulated annealer was developed in python. This software algorithm can produce organized visual layouts of dense inter-connected graphs by mimicking the annealing process used by material scientists to work out crystal dislocations. This algorithm begins with a totally random layout of all components (represented as numbered nodes) and connections. The algorithm then begins to randomly swap node positions. The total wire length of the network before the swap and after the swap are calculated. If the total wire length decreases, the node swap is accepted. If the total wire length increases, there is a probabilistic acceptance of the node swap. A gaussian function with a temperature variable governs this probabilistic acceptance. At “hot'' temperatures, there is a greater chance of accepting swaps that increase wire length. At “cool” temperatures, there is a smaller chance. The function starts with a “hot” temperature, and very gradually the temperature goes down, leading to fewer unfavorable swaps. The algorithm mimics the annealing process used in the formation of organized crystals in that at high temperatures, atoms have a lot of energy to move around and occupy positions with high mechanical stress. As the temperature decreases, atoms settle into positions that induce the least amount of mechanical stress. This algorithm is good at overcoming local valleys with regards to the function for total wire length. That is, to arrive at the global minimum of total wire length, it is possible that some unfavorable swaps may need to be initially accepted. The disadvantage to using this algorithm is that for very large networks, it can take a long time to make any progress. Funded by NSF grants no. 1748459 and 16088.
